标题: Integrating Artificial Intelligence in English Language Classrooms: Enhancing English for Specific Purposes Education

作者: Daiu, Sonila, Qosja, Agresa, Ali, Maaruf

发表日期: 2026-01-01

摘要: This case study examines artificial intelligence (AI) through the lens of Martin Buber’s I-It and I-Thou interactions. Data were collected using survey methodology to assess how people perceive AI’s impact on their interactions with others and with AI systems. Individuals showed various trust and concern about AI’s involvement in education stressing potential. Based on these findings, we consider the implications for the constantly changing environment of human-AI interactions, as well as various possibilities toward developing effective and ethical links throughout a progressively AI-mediated setting. This study advances the current debate on AI’s social repercussions by offering insights into establishing a more human-focused approach to integrating AI in education in the not-too-distant future. The enthusiasm for the use of this technology has engendered a fundamental shift in classroom dynamics, altering the interactions between educators, learners and students themselves. Consequently, a transition from profound “I–Thou” relationships to more utilitarian “I–It” frameworks has transpired, eroding the capacity to nurture genuine connections amongst educators, students and peers. It provides a thorough examination of the significant consequences of Martin Buber’s I-Thou and I-It relationships for educational paradigms. Technology must be embraced in today’s education and teachers must incorporate technology into their students’ learning. From the feedback obtained from surveying 500 students, hybrid learning was preferred by 45.2% of the students with only 8.8% of students preferring purely an online learning experience. However, 46% of students still preferred traditional learning. The research found it was not the actual use of AI in education per se but how e-learning was delivered with student experience, tools for aiding time management, hyper-personalisation and the “I-thou” friendly approach taken seen as being the key to the successful incorporation of AI in education and its mass adoption by learners in the near-future.