标题: Spatial Multicriteria Decision Aiding for Regional Energy Planning and Assessment. The Case Study of Gotland, Sweden

作者: Petronio, Lucia, Assumma, Vanessa, Liljenfeldt, Johanna, Santangelo, Angela

发表日期: 2026-01-01

摘要: The transition to renewable energy requires regional planning approaches that integrate spatial, environmental, and social dimensions. This study develops a Multi-Criteria Spatial Decision-Support System (MC-SDSS) to support regional energy planning by combining geospatial data analysis, future scenario development, and multi-criteria evaluation techniques. The methodology is structured into four phases - contextual analysis, energy potential mapping and future scenarios, integrated evaluation and decision support, and implementation and monitoring. The approach is applied to Gotland, Sweden, a region with ambitious decarbonization goals and unique geographic characteristics. Renewable energy potential is assessed through thematic mapping using Geographic Information Systems (GIS) tools, focusing on wind, solar, and biomass resources. In the evaluation phase, a Spatial Multi-Criteria Analysis (SMCA) is conducted to assess and compare the scenarios. Five main criteria are identified Society and Culture, Technology and Infrastructure, Economy, Land-use, Environment each associated with specific measurable spatial indicators. Criteria weights are derived using the Simple Multi-Attribute Rating Technique Exploiting Ranks (SMARTER) method with the purpose of weighting the indicators maps and then aggregating them into suitability maps for Renewable Energy Sources (RES) power plants installation. By embedding the decision-support system within a spatial planning perspective, this study promotes a transparent, replicable, and stakeholder-sensitive approach to regional energy planning. The proposed framework supports the identification of hybrid scenarios and fosters alignment between energy objectives, territorial characteristics, and community needs—contributing to more resilient and place-based energy transitions.